Gluten free Snickerdoodle
Ingredients
Cookie Dough
1 cup unsalted butter, softened Use Smart Balance for dairy-free/vegan.
1 ½ cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs Use Bob's Red Mill gluten-free egg replacer.
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
3 cups gluten-free all-purpose flour with xanthan gum I like Pillsbury gluten-free. Not all gluten-free flours are created equal. You may experience different baking results depending on the gluten-free flour blend you choose.
2 teaspoons cream of tartar If you don't have the cream of tartar, you can substitute 2 teaspoons baking powder for BOTH the cream of tartar and the baking soda.
1 teaspoon baking soda
¼ teaspoon salt
Cinnamon-Sugar Mixture
¼ cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350°F.
2. In a large mixing bowl, cream the softened unsalted butter and granulated sugar until light and fluffy.
3. Scrape the sides of the bowl and add in the eggs (or egg replacer) and pure vanilla extract, and cream until smooth.
4. Add in the cream of tartar, baking soda, and salt, and mix until combined.
5. Add in half of the gluten-free flour and mix until combined. Add in the other half of the gluten-free flour and mix until the dough forms.
6. In a small bowl, stir together the ¼ cup of granulated sugar and ground cinnamon.
7. Scoop out the cookie dough using a greased 1 ½ teaspoon cookie scoop. Roll the dough ball into the cinnamon sugar mixture and coat well.
8. Place the cookie dough on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet 1-2 inches apart.
9. Flatten the cookie dough ball by pressing it down in the center of the ball. Flattening the cookie dough helps to keep the cookies from puffing up in the middle (see the recipe video). If you want fluffier cookies, skip the flattening step.
10. Bake on the middle rack for 8 minutes for softer cookies, and 10-12 minutes for crispier cookies. The cookies with the egg replacer need to bake for 12 minutes. Please watch your oven because all ovens are different.
11. Allow the cookies to cool on the baking sheet for several minutes before removing them.
12. Store the cookies in an air-tight container.
Recipe from Mama knows gluten free by Audrey